OBSDOCS-1729: Create RNs for OpenShift Logging 6.2 (#89417)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/log6x-6-2-0-rn.adoc

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0_{context}"]
= Logging 6.2.0 Release Notes

This release includes link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:2398[{logging-uc} {for} Bug Fix Release 6.2.0].

[id="openshift-logging-release-notes-6-2-0-enhancements_{context}"]
== New Features and Enhancements

=== Log Collection

* With this update, HTTP outputs have a `proxy` field, which allows log data to be sent via an HTTP proxy. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6069[LOG-6069]).

* This enhancement adds OpenTelemetry (OTel) semantic stream labels to the loki and lokistack outputs so that logs can be queried using both ViaQ and OTel stream labels. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6508[LOG-6508]).

=== Log Storage

> * With this update, time-based stream sharding in Loki is now enabled by the {loki-op}. This solves the issue of ingesting log entries older than the sliding time-window used by Loki. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6757[LOG-6757])

Reviewer: @theashiot also make sure to look at the Release note field.  I used this in lieu of the label since it explicitly allows stating the need or kind of release note

> * With this update, time-based stream sharding in Loki is now enabled by the {loki-op}. This solves the issue of ingesting log entries older than the sliding time-window used by Loki. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6757[LOG-6757])

Reviewer 2: I had set the release notes before cloning the issue to the past releases. But those have not been released yet, so 6.2.0 is now the first release where this happens -> needs to be in RN. I have remove `no-rn` from the labels.

> * With this update, time-based stream sharding in Loki is now enabled by the {loki-op}. This solves the issue of ingesting log entries older than the sliding time-window used by Loki. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6757[LOG-6757])

Author: thanks!

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0_{context}"]
= Logging 6.2.0 Release Notes

This release includes link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:2398[{logging-uc} {for} Bug Fix Release 6.2.0].

[id="openshift-logging-release-notes-6-2-0-enhancements_{context}"]
== New Features and Enhancements

=== Log Collection

* With this update, HTTP outputs include a `proxy` field that you can use to send log data via an HTTP proxy. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6069[LOG-6069])

=== Log Storage

* With this update, time-based stream sharding in Loki is now enabled by the {loki-op}. This solves the issue of ingesting log entries older than the sliding time-window used by Loki. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6757[LOG-6757])

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-technology-preview-features_{context}"]
== Technology Preview

:FeatureName: The OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) output log forwarder
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> * With this update, OpenTelemetry support offered by OpenShift {logging-uc} continues to improve, specifically in the area of enabling seamless migrations from ViaQ to OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6146[LOG-6146])

Reviewer: This change is specifically for LokiStack. Maybe:

With this update, OpenTelemetry support offered by OpenShift {logging-uc} continues to improve, specifically in the area of enabling migrations from the ViaQ data model to Otel when forwarding to LokiStack

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0_{context}"]
= Logging 6.2.0 Release Notes

This release includes link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:2398[{logging-uc} {for} Bug Fix Release 6.2.0].

[id="openshift-logging-release-notes-6-2-0-enhancements_{context}"]
== New Features and Enhancements

=== Log Collection

> * With this update, HTTP outputs include a `proxy` field that you can use to send log data via an HTTP proxy. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6069[LOG-6069])

Reviewer 3: Future reference, [according to the IBM Style Guide (ISG)](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#v):
> Use (via), which means by way of, to refer to routing data, such as in “Messages are routed via SMTP”. In other situations, try to replace via with one of the following synonyms: across, along, by, from, on, or through.

Not worth holding up the merge, as fas as I am concerned.

Author: upated

* With this update, the `structuredMetadata` field has been removed from {loki-op} in the `otlp` configuration because structured metadata is now the default type. Additionally, the update introduces a `drop` field that administrators can use to drop `OpenTelemetry` attributes when receiving data through `OpenTelemetry` protocol (OTLP). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6507[LOG-6507])

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-bug-fixes_{context}"]
== Bug Fixes

* Before this update, the timestamp shown in the console logs did not match the `@timestamp` field in the message. With this update the timestamp is correctly shown in the console. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6222[LOG-6222])

* The introduction of `ClusterLogForwarder` 6.x modified the `ClusterLogForwarder` API to allow for a consistent templating mechanism. However, this was not applied to the `syslog` output spec API for the `facility` and `severity` fields. This update adds the required validation to the `ClusterLogForwarder` API for the `facility` and `severity` fields. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6661[LOG-6661])

> * Before this update, an error in the {loki-op} generating the Loki configuration caused the amount of workers to delete to be zero when `1x.pico` was set as the `LokiStack` size. With this update, the number of workers to delete is set to 10. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6781[LOG-6781]

Reviewer 4: Miss ) at the end.

Author: thanks, fixed

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-known-issues_{context}"]
== Known Issues

> * The previous data model encoded all information in JSON. The console still uses the query of the previous data model to decode both old and new entries. The logs that are stored by using the new `OpenTelemetry` data model for the `LokiStack` output, display the following error in the logging console:

Author: updated

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-bug-fixes_{context}"]
== Bug Fixes

* Before this update, the timestamp shown in the console logs did not match the `@timestamp` field in the message. With this update the timestamp is correctly shown in the console. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6222[LOG-6222])

* The introduction of ClusterLogForwarder 6.x modified the ClusterLogForwarder API to allow for a consistent templating mechanism. However, this was not applied to the syslog output spec API for the `facility` and `severity` fields. This update adds the required validation to the ClusterLogForwarder API for the `facility` and `severity` fields. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6661[LOG-6661])

* Before this update, an error in the {loki-op} generating the Loki configuration caused the amount of workers to delete to be zero when `1x.pico` was set as the LokiStack size. With this update, the number of workers to delete is set to 10. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6781[LOG-6781])

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-known-issues_{context}"]

> == Known Issues

Author: i'll take this under advisement and update soon!

* Currently, the logs that were stored using the new OpenTelemetry data model for the LokiStack output, display the following error in the logging Console:
+
----
__error__ JSONParserErr 
__error_details__ Value looks like object, but can't find closing '}' symbol
----
+
The error is displayed because the previous data model encoded all information as JSON and the Console still uses the query to parse the information so that both old and new entries are decoded properly.
+
The displayed error is only a result of the query and can be ignored. It does not indicate an error in the stored data. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6808[LOG-6808])

* Currently the API documentation incorrectly mentions OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP) attributes as being "included" instead of "excluded" in the descriptions of the `drop` field. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6839[LOG-6839]).

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-CVEs_{context}"]
== CVEs

> * link:https://access.redhat.com/security/cve/CVE-2024-12797[CVE-2024-12797]

Author: thanks, updated

== New Features and Enhancements

=== Log Collection

* With this update, HTTP outputs include a `proxy` field that you can use to send log data via an HTTP proxy. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6069[LOG-6069])

=== Log Storage

* With this update, time-based stream sharding in Loki is now enabled by the {loki-op}. This solves the issue of ingesting log entries older than the sliding time-window used by Loki. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6757[LOG-6757])

* With this update, you can configure a custom certificate authority (CA) certificate with {loki-op} when using Swift as an object store. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-4818[LOG-4818])

* With this update, you can configure workload identity federation on {gcp-first} by using the Cluster Credential Operator in OpenShift 4.17 and later releases with the {loki-op}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6158[LOG-6158])

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-technology-preview-features_{context}"]
== Technology Preview

:FeatureName: The OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) output log forwarder
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> * With this update, OpenTelemetry support offered by OpenShift {logging-uc} continues to improve, specifically in the area of enabling migrations from the ViaQ data model to OpenTelemetry when forwarding to LokiStack. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6146[LOG-6146])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* With this update, OpenTelemetry support offered by OpenShift {logging-uc} continues to improve, specifically in the area of enabling migrations from the ViaQ data model to `OpenTelemetry` when forwarding to `LokiStack`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6146[LOG-6146])
```

> * With this update, the field `structuredMetadata` has been removed from {loki-op} in the `otlp` configuration because structured metadata is now the default type. Additionally, the update introduces a `drop` field that administrators can use to drop OpenTelemetry attributes when receiving data through OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6507[LOG-6507])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* With this update, the `structuredMetadata` field has been removed from {loki-op} in the `otlp` configuration because structured metadata is now the default type. Additionally, the update introduces a `drop` field that administrators can use to drop `OpenTelemetry` attributes when receiving data through `OpenTelemetry` protocol (OTLP). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6507[LOG-6507])
```

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-bug-fixes_{context}"]
== Bug Fixes

* Before this update, the timestamp shown in the console logs did not match the `@timestamp` field in the message. With this update the timestamp is correctly shown in the console. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6222[LOG-6222])

> * The introduction of ClusterLogForwarder 6.x modified the ClusterLogForwarder API to allow for a consistent templating mechanism. However, this was not applied to the syslog output spec API for the `facility` and `severity` fields. This update adds the required validation to the ClusterLogForwarder API for the `facility` and `severity` fields. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6661[LOG-6661])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* The introduction of `ClusterLogForwarder` 6.x modified the `ClusterLogForwarder` API to allow for a consistent templating mechanism. However, this was not applied to the `syslog` output spec API for the `facility` and `severity` fields. This update adds the required validation to the `ClusterLogForwarder` API for the `facility` and `severity` fields. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6661[LOG-6661])
```

- Consider adding back ticks for object names. 
Guideline: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-references

Author: done

> * Before this update, an error in the {loki-op} generating the Loki configuration caused the amount of workers to delete to be zero when `1x.pico` was set as the LokiStack size. With this update, the number of workers to delete is set to 10. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6781[LOG-6781])

Author: done

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-known-issues_{context}"]
== Known Issues

> * Currently, the logs that were stored using the new OpenTelemetry data model for the LokiStack output, display the following error in the logging Console:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* The previous data model encoded all information in JSON. The console still uses the query of the previous data model to decode both old and new entries. The logs that are stored by using the new `OpenTelemetry` data model for the `LokiStack` output, display the following error in the logging console:
```

Author: excellent suggestion! done

+
----
__error__ JSONParserErr 
__error_details__ Value looks like object, but can't find closing '}' symbol
----
+

> The error is displayed because the previous data model encoded all information as JSON and the Console still uses the query to parse the information so that both old and new entries are decoded properly.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

I moved this part to line no 49 to maintain minimalism. hence suggesting to remove this from here.

Author: done

+

> The displayed error is only a result of the query and can be ignored. It does not indicate an error in the stored data. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6808[LOG-6808])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can ignore the error as it is only a result of the query and not a data-related error. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6808[LOG-6808])
```

Suggestion to shorten the sentence.

Author: nice one, done

> * Currently the API documentation incorrectly mentions OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP) attributes as being "included" instead of "excluded" in the descriptions of the `drop` field. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6839[LOG-6839]).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Currently, the API documentation incorrectly mentions `OpenTelemetry` protocol (OTLP) attributes as `included` instead of `excluded` in the descriptions of the `drop` field. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6839[LOG-6839]).
```

Author: done

[id="openshift-logging-release-notes-6-2-0-enhancements_{context}"]
== New Features and Enhancements

=== Log Collection

* With this update, HTTP outputs have a `proxy` field, which allows log data to be sent via an HTTP proxy. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6069[LOG-6069]).

> * This enhancement adds OpenTelemetry (OTel) semantic stream labels to the loki and lokistack outputs so that logs can be queried using both ViaQ and OTel stream labels. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6508[LOG-6508]).

Reviewer 2: That's true, we usually do not explicitly mention changes that already went out in a previous z-stream again in the next y-stream :+1: 
I have updated the issue accordingly.

> * This enhancement adds OpenTelemetry (OTel) semantic stream labels to the loki and lokistack outputs so that logs can be queried using both ViaQ and OTel stream labels. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6508[LOG-6508]).

Author: thanks, removed

=== Log Storage

> * With this update, time-based stream sharding in Loki is now enabled by the Loki Operator. This reolves the issue of not being able to save historic data into Loki.  (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6757[LOG-6757])

Author: updated

[id="logging-release-notes-6-2-0-technology-preview-features_{context}"]
== Technology Preview

:FeatureName: The OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) output log forwarder
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> * A new output type, `OTLP`, allows sending JSON-encoded log records using the OpenTelemetry data model and resource semantic conventions. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-4225[LOG-4225]). 

Author: updated

> * With this update, Loki Operator allows the administrator to configure LokiStack to drop OpenTelemetry attributes when receiving data through OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6507[LOG-6507]).

Author: updated
